[Music]
who
invented writing human beings have
probably been speaking to each other for
tens of thousands of years
but we've only been writing our words
down for about 5 000 years
before then we recorded information
using pictures and diagrams on
pottery and cave walls or woven into
fabric
those artistic impulses led us down the
path to writing
the sumerians kept records of business
deals using tiny clay sculptures of
goats donkeys and oxen they then
discovered that
two-dimensional engravings on clay
tablets were even simpler
for example this symbol meant mountains
this one meant head if the mouth area of
head was emphasized that could mean
mouth mouth combined with water
meant drink and mouth joined to bread
meant
eat add the symbol for ox and you have
eat an ox voila
the invention of writing but some words
have meanings
that are hard to represent with symbols
how would you draw
ox in the mountains remember if you just
draw what you mean
that's art not writing in order for this
to be writing
the symbol has to stand for the word can
you read this
it's a famous quote from hamlet by
william shakespeare
right to be or not to be that's how the
sumerians solved the problem too
ox plus water plus mountain
what does water have to do with anything
well the sumerian word for water
sounded just like their word for in
so ox in mountains
linguists call this rebus writing the
sumerians already knew how to represent
meaning through written symbols and by
representing
sounds as well the sumerians expanded
their written vocabulary
gradually the symbols for sounds were
used more often
and symbols for meaning were used less
the writing system became streamlined
into a phonetic alphabet
that we know as cuneiform many cultures
like the acadians and assyrians adapted
this sumerian invention to create their
own writing systems
the epoch of gilgamesh and the code of
hamurabi were written
in variants of cuneiform as this
technology spread
these symbols found their way to greece
and into the most widely used alphabet
in the world today
but sumeria wasn't the only place on
earth where writing was invented
ancient egyptians developed their
hieroglyphic and heratic scripts at
about the same time
3 500 bc and writing was independently
invented in china
around 1 500 bc and then spread
throughout southeast asia
most recently the mayan culture in
central america
began carving their cartouches in 300
a.d
so who invented writing the sumerians
the egyptians the chinese and the mayans
for sure
ultimately all the writing systems still
in use around the world today
can be traced back to sumeria or china
writing may have also been invented in
other parts of the world
ancient inscriptions left by the indus
valley and rapa nui cultures have been
discovered but nobody has been able to
decipher them
do you want to try
[Music]
you